Title: Docs
Slug: docs

</br>

## [AutoCompletion]({filename}/pages/completion.md)<a name="completion"></a>

Auto-completion kicks in as soon as you start typing. The suggestions are context-sensitive so the REPL will only suggest relevant items.

[Read More...]({filename}/pages/completion.md)

</br>

## [Config]({filename}/pages/config.md)<a name="config"></a>

The config file for mycli is located in the user's home folder (`~/.myclirc`).

[Read More...]({filename}/pages/config.md)

</br>

## [Colors]({filename}/pages/syntax.md)<a name="colors"></a>

Syntax highlighting has plenty of themes that can be changed via the [config]({filename}/pages/config.md) file.

Showcase of various color themes:

[Gallery]({filename}/pages/syntax.md)

</br>

## [Commands]({filename}/pages/commands.md)<a name="commands"></a>

Mycli has an assortment of commands to help you as you interact with a
database.

</br>

## [Keybindings]({filename}/pages/keybindings.md)<a name="keybindings"></a>

There are two editing modes available: Emacs mode and Vi mode. The editing modes can be changed via the config file (`~/.myclirc`) or toggled via the F4 key.

[Read more...]({filename}/pages/keybindings.md)

</br>

## [LLM Support]({filename}/pages/llm.md)<a name="llm"></a>

You can interact with an LLM directly at the mycli prompt.

[Read more...]({filename}/pages/llm.md)

</br>

## [Favorite Queries]({filename}/pages/favorites.md)<a name="favorites"></a>

Frequently used queries can be saved as favorite queries with a name.

[Read More...]({filename}/pages/favorites.md)

</br>

## [Logging]({filename}/pages/logging.md)<a name="logging"></a>

The default log file is located at `~/.mycli.log`. There is additional user-friendly audit logging.

[Read More..]({filename}/pages/logging.md)

</br>

## [Open Editor]({filename}/pages/editor.md)<a name="editor"></a>

Use the `\e` command in the prompt to launch the default editor for a query.

[Read More...]({filename}/pages/editor.md)

</br>

## [Multi-line mode]({filename}/pages/multi-line.md)<a name="multi-line"></a>

Mycli doesn't expect a semi-colon at the end of a line to execute the query, but this can be changed by setting the multi-line mode.

[Read more...]({filename}/pages/multi-line.md)

</br>

## [History & Search]({filename}/pages/history.md)<a name="history"></a>

Mycli keeps track of the queries entered in the REPL. The Up/Down arrow key can be used to navigate the history.

Pressing `<C-r>` will enable incremental history search. Press `<C-r>` and then
start typing your search term to see the queries narrowed down.  If [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf)
is installed, history search can use powerful fuzzy matching.

[Read more...]({filename}/pages/history.md)

</br>

## [Working with multiple servers]({filename}/pages/loginpath.md)<a name="loginpath"></a>

When working with multiple servers, it is possible to store their connection parameters using
`mysql_config_editor`, and connect providing `--login-path <name> <database>` with a server alias.

[Read more...]({filename}/pages/loginpath.md)

</br>

## [Pager Output]({filename}/pages/pager.md)<a name="pager"></a>

Mycli uses pager programs to make it easier to view large result sets. This
can be configured or disabled.

</br>

## [Prompt]({filename}/pages/prompt.md)<a name="prompt"></a>

Mycli has a configurable prompt.

</br>

## [Connect]({filename}/pages/connect.md)<a name="connect"></a>

How to connect to a MySQL compatible server using mycli.
